On 8/22/25, I downloaded the TAS1R1 orthologues for all primates and rodents / related species in Ensembl. For some reason, tree shrews were categorized within "rodents / related species" despite being more closely related to primates than rodents. Therefore, I deleted all species in rodents / related species aside from tree shrews, as I wanted the tree shrew to serve as the outgroup. 

On 8/27/25, I used the human TAS1R1 orthologues as input into BlastN, and I searched for orthologues in Primates, Dermoptera and Scandentia. I identified species not currently represented in the Ensembl dataset, and downloaded sequences. I focused on sequences which were labeled "PREDICTED... mRNA", which are sequences that are computationally annotated from genomic data. Given that these are mostly non-model organisms without robust experimental validation, this type of data is adequate. I only considered species with a query cover of 97-100%. The downloaded NCBI data can be found in TAS1R1/01_Alignment/Downloaded_Data/seqdump.txt. 

I merged data from Ensembl and NCBI into a combined alignment file named "TAS1R1_DNA_alignment.fa". Firstly, throughout this process, I renamed the Ensembl and NCBI sequence names to the species binomial nomenclature for ease in downstream analysis. However, in order to document the name changes, I created a separate file named "TAS1R1_renamed_sequences.md" where I pasted the original Ensembl and NCBI names for each of the sequences and their new name for my analysis, which can serve as a key. Secondly, many of the NCBI sequences contained nucleotides prior to the start codon or after the end codon, which I manually removed using NCBI's CDS annotation as a guide. I further removed the stop codons, as they were not present in the Ensembl sequences. Additionally, the Ensembl "Otolemur_garnettii" sequence had an "AGC" preceding the start codon which was removed. 

After these initial data cleaning steps were completed, I then reviewed the alignment to make further improvements. Specifically, at this stage, I want to ensure that my sequences are in appropriate frame, so I reference the protein alignment regularly when shifting deletions, and I also delete insertions that only a minority of species have. I downloaded the proteins from Ensembl and, for this gene, I also did a protein Blast of the human sequence to find the Cynocephalus volans orthologue in order to ensure that I was making the appropriate changes.  

1) Cynocephalus volans 